Glossary api details (#4015)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/glossary/e.md

EPL Apps is part of the [{{< product-c8y-iot >}} Streaming Analytics](#streaming-analytics) application. It allows you to develop a single-file EPL application directly within {{< product-c8y-iot >}} using [Apama](#apama) [EPL](#epl), giving you a pro-code environment to define your streaming analytics applications.   

{{< c8y-details title="Developer details" >}}
EPL Apps are managed via the Streaming Analytics UI. The [Apama EPL Apps Tools GitHub repository](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/apama-eplapps-tools) includes tools to help with testing and deploying EPL apps from the command line or a CI/CD environment.
{{< /c8y-details >}}

> ### Event {#event}

Reviewer: @BeateRixen for the Apama events, it doesn't become clear what it is about I feel, as EPL (EVENT processing language) is missing there as a reference,. Also Streaming Analytics is not really needed there as a link, as both "Apama" and "EPL" are linked to it already. So maybe:

```suggestion for Apama events bullet (as I couldn't directly suggest on the correct line!)
- In [Apama](#apama) [EPL (Event processing language)](#epl), an "event" is the fundamental data structure for all interactions.
```

- [Alarms](#alarm) are a special type of event.
- [Audit logs](#audit-log) are security-relevant events.

{{< c8y-details title="Developer details" >}}
Events are managed via the [Event API](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Events) (`/event/events`). Key properties include type, time, text, and source.
{{< /c8y-details >}}

### Export {#export}

> Export is a feature of the [Cockpit application](#cockpit-application) that allows users to extract a limited amount of platform data, such as [measurements](#measurement), [alarms](#alarm), or [events](#event), into CSV or XLSX files. Exports can be configured with filters for specific [devices](#device), time ranges, and data fields. The scheduling of recurring exports is a key function, managed by the report-agent microservice and configured within the Cockpit application.

Reviewer: the microservice for scheduled exports is now also mentioned in the dev details and isn't needed in the general definition anymore. So shorter version could be:

```suggestion
Export is a feature of the [Cockpit application](#cockpit-application) that allows users to extract a limited amount of platform data, such as [measurements](#measurement), [alarms](#alarm), or [events](#event), into CSV or XLSX files. Exports can be configured with filters for specific [devices](#device), time ranges, and data fields. Recurring exports can be scheduled in the Cockpit application.
```

{{< c8y-details title="Developer details" >}}
Export configurations are managed as a special type of managed object via the [Inventory API](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Inventory-API) (`/inventory/managedObjects`). The object's JSON payload contains fragments defining the export parameters (filters, fields, file type) and schedule. The report-agent microservice reads these managed objects to execute scheduled exports. Manual exports triggered from the UI are also handled by this backend service, which sends the user an email with a download link.
{{< /c8y-details >}}

### Extensions {#extensions}

Extensions are official or community-supported packages that add new functionalities to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. They can include plugins, which add features to existing [applications](#application) at runtime, or blueprints, which are combinations of preconfigured UI functionalities for creating new applications.

For information about uploading extensions for Analytics Builder, see [Creating your own blocks](/streaming-analytics/analytics-builder/#creating-your-own-blocks).

{{< c8y-details title="Developer details" >}}

> Individual extensions are bundled into a package which is installed as an application via the [Application API](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Application-API) (`/application/applications`) and contains an `isPackage` flag inside the manifest. Additionally, extensions use the Versioning API, to ensure compatibility when they are integrated into an application.

Reviewer: adding link to versioning API also (from docs)

```suggestion
Individual extensions are bundled into a package which is installed as an application via the [Application API](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Application-API) (`/application/applications`) and contains an `isPackage` flag inside the manifest. Additionally, extensions use the [Versioning API](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Application-versions), to ensure compatibility when they are integrated into an application.
```
